gnu.announce		Announcements and Requests for Help from the GNU project and the Free Software Foundation. (Moderated)
gnu.bash.bug		Bug reports for the GNU Bourne Again SHell. 
gnu.cfengine.bug	Bug reports for GNU cfengine.
gnu.cfengine.help	Users list for GNU cfengine.
gnu.chess		Announcements and discussions about GNU Chess. (Moderated)
gnu.chess.bug		Bug reports for GNU Chess.
gnu.cvs.bug		Bug reports for the CVS versions control system.
gnu.cvs.help		Announcements and discussions for the CVS version control system. (Moderated)
gnu.emacs.announce	Announcements and progress reports for GNU Emacs. (Moderated)
gnu.emacs.bug		Bug reports for GNU Emacs, the Swiss army knife of text editors. 
gnu.emacs.gnus		Announcements and discussions for GNUS, the GNU Emacs Usenet newsreader (in English).  (Moderated)
gnu.emacs.help		Users list for the GNU Emacs text editor.
gnu.emacs.sources	GNU Emacs source code postings and patches. 
gnu.emacs.vms		Users list for the GNU Emacs VMS port. 
gnu.g++.announce	Announcements and progress reports on the GNU C++ compiler. (Moderated)
gnu.g++.bug		Bug reports for the GNU C++ compiler.
gnu.gdb.bug		Bug reports for GDB, the GNU debugger. 
gnu.g++.help		Users list for the GNU C++ compiler. 
gnu.ghostscript.bug	Bug reports and development for GNU GhostScript, the PostScript interpreter of the GNU project. 
gnu.g++.lib.bug		Bug reports for the GNU C++ standard library.
gnu.gnats.bug		Bug reports for GNATS, the GNU bug tracking system.
gnu.gnusenet.config	Discussion related to the gnu.* hierarchy. 
gnu.gnusenet.test	A group for test messages.
gnu.gnustep.announce	Announcements and progress reports for the GNUstep programming environment. (Moderated)
gnu.gnustep.bug		Bug reports for the GNUstep programming environment. 
gnu.gnustep.discuss	Discussion list for the GNUstep programming environment. 
gnu.gnustep.help	Users list for the GNUstep programming environment. 
gnu.groff.bug		Bug reports for the GNU version of nroff, troff et al. 
gnu.hurd.bug		Bug reports for GNU Hurd. 
gnu.hurd.help		Users list for GNU Hurd. 
gnu.misc.discuss	General GNU project and free software discussions. 
gnu.smalltalk.bug	Bug reports for the GNU implementation of Smalltalk. 
gnu.utils.bug		Bug reports for the GNU utilities. 
gnu.utils.help		Users list for the GNU utilities. 
