FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Media Contacts:
      Free Software Foundation (USA)
          Tim Ney <pr@gnu.org>
          Phone: +1-617-542-5942

          Leslie Proctor <lproctor@gnu.org>
          Proctor Resources
          Phone: +1-818-395-4482

      Free Software Foundation Europe
        Germany: Georg C. F. Greve <greve@gnu.org>
                 Phone: +49-40-23809080
                 Fax: +49-40-23809081

        France:  Frederic Couchet  <fcouchet@april.org>
                 Phone: +(33/0) 6 60 68 89 31


Brian Paul is Awarded the Free Software Foundation Award For the Advancement
of Free Software

VA Linux employee is honored for his work on the Mesa 3D Graphics Library

Free Software Foundation Europe Hosts and Organizes Ceremony


Paris, France - February 2, 2001 - The Free Software Foundation (FSF)
bestowed its third annual Free Software Foundation Award for the Advancement
of Free Software in Paris, France.  Richard Stallman presented the award, a
one-of-a-kind handmade quilt, to Brian Paul for his ground-breaking work on
the Mesa 3D Graphics Library.  The ceremony was sponsored by Aurora, Idealx,
and VA Linux Systems (LNUX).  The Association for Promotion and Research in
Libre Computing (APRIL) organized the ceremony.  Proceeds from the event
went to benefit the Free Software Foundation Europe.

A panel of free software pioneers and leaders selected the winner and two
other finalists from the scores of mostly volunteer programmers worldwide
who dedicate their time to advancing free software.  The selection panel
included: Jeff Bates, Chairperson; Steve Blood; Jeff Carr; Miguel de Icaza
and Bruce Perens.

"The Mesa 3D Graphics Library allows free software users to model and
render in full 3D." Jeff Bates, chairman of the Free Software Foundation
Awards Committee said.  "The library has added tools and capabilities to the
GNU/Linux system that are being utilized by people all over the world."

Brian Paul was chosen from three finalists for the award.  The other
finalists were Donald Becker, for his network device drivers for the
GNU/Linux system and Patrick Lenz for his work on freshmeat.net.

"We began the Free Software Foundation Award as a way to honor those who
have tirelessly given their time and their immense talent to further the
Free Software Movement," Richard Stallman, founder and president of the Free
Software Foundation said.  "While only one of the three finalists will
receive the award, they all deserve to be recognized for their invaluable
contributions."

This was the third award of this kind; the prior winners were Miguel de
Icaza and Larry Wall.

The ceremony was organized by the Association for Promotion and Research in
Libre Computing (APRIL).  APRIL is the French associate organization of the
Free Software Foundation Europe.  "This event was a great opportunity for
supports of the FSF and the FSF Europe to work together very closey" said
Olivier Berger, the Secretary General of APRIL.

At the ceremony, additional awards were also distributed.  Georg
C. F. Greve, president designate of the FSF Europe, presented Daniel Riek
with a certificate of appreciation for his seminal funding of the Free
Software Foundation Europe.  Frederic Couchet, president of APRIL, presented
Loic Dachary with an award commemorating his unwavering support and
contributions to free software over the past 14 years.

A video and still photos of the event are available at:
http://www.gnu.org/award/2000/2000.html



About the Free Software Foundation:

The Free Software Foundation (FSF), a 501c non-profit, is dedicated to
eliminating restrictions on people's right to use, copy, modify and
redistribute computer programs.  This is done by promoting the development
of new free software, working towards the goal of eliminating the need to
use proprietary systems and programs.  They also work to spread awareness of
the ethical and political issues that concern software users' freedom.
Their Web site, located at http://www.gnu.org is an important source of
information about GNU/Linux worldwide, receiving more than 1 million visits
per week.  They are headquartered in Boston, MA.


About the Free Software Foundation Europe:

Among the tasks of the Free Software Foundation Europe will be the
coordination of Free Software initiatives throughout Europe, providing
infrastructure for Free Software projects and especially the GNU Project and
providing a competence-center for politicians and the press.

At the moment a group consisting of the original four Bernhard Reiter, Peter
Gerwinski and Werner Koch as well as Georg C. F. Greve, all well-known
authorities on the Free Software field, has been joined by Frederic Couchet
(well known for his work with April in France), Jonas =D6berg (a Free
Software evangelist from Sweden) and Alessandro Rubini (very active in the
Italian Free Software community) in the core planning team. Together with a
lot of dedicated volunteers who have joined this group on the mailing lists
we will see to it that the spirit of Free Software will be strengthened and
upheld in Europe.

Further information about the FSF Europe can be found at
http://www.fsfeurope.org/.
