Update - Friday, October 12, 2001 - The Free Software Foundation and Finite
State Machine Labs Inc.  (FSMLabs) have announced the release of the Open
RTLinux patent license Version 2
(http://www.fsmlabs.com/openpatentlicense.html) fully compliant with the
Free Software Foundation's General Public License (GPL).  The Open Patent
License grants the right to use U.S. Patent No. 5,995,745 in GPL free
software without payment of a royalty.  This license protects GPL use of
the RTLinux process.

FSMLabs and FSF expect the release of this license to accelerate the rate
of the free software revolution in the fields of embedded and realtime
computing.  These areas have been isolated from the mainstream of progress
in software development by proprietary software based on secrets and
incompatibilities designed to lock customers into proprietary technology.
The availability of superior free software has already lead to many
innovative projects from large corporations thousands of individuals and
small companies all over the world.  FSF thanks FSMLabs for its continuing
contributions to the free software community.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Media Contact: Free Software Foundation
               Bradley M. Kuhn <pr@gnu.org>
               Phone: +1-617-542-5942

     FSF and FSMLabs come to agreement on a GPL-compliant version of
                       RTLinux Open Patent License

Boston, Massachusetts, USA - Tuesday, September 18, 2001 - The Free
Software Foundation and Finite State Machine Labs (FSMLabs) have come to
an agreement on a fully GPL-compliant version of FSMLabs RTLinux Open
Patent License.  FSF and FSMLabs are working to finalize the license
language; FSMLabs will be publishing on its website the text of that
license, with a statement by FSF confirming its GPL-compliant status, in
the very near future.

The FSF has already withdrawn its press statement (issued Friday, 14
September 2001) concerning RTLinux license terms.  Our differences turned
out to be mostly a result of unfortunate miscommunications and we urge
everyone to put this dispute behind them.  FSF and FSMLabs expect to
continue their cooperation to secure availability of FSMLabs patented
technology for use in GNU/Linux systems.

The FSF thanks FSMLabs for its contribution of this patent license to the
free software community, and for its longstanding support and publication
of free software under the GPL.


About GNU/Linux:

GNU is a Free Software Unix-like operating system. GNU/Linux is the
integrated combination of the GNU operating system with the kernel, Linux,
written by Linus Torvalds in 1991.  The various versions of GNU/Linux have
an estimated 20 million users.

Some people call the GNU/Linux system "Linux", but this misnomer leads to
confusion (people cannot tell whether you mean the whole system or the
kernel, one part), and spreads an inaccurate picture of how, when and
where the system was developed.  Making a consistent distinction between
GNU/Linux, the whole operating system, and Linux, the kernel, is the best
way to clear up the confusion.


About the Free Software Foundation:

The Free Software Foundation, founded in 1985, is dedicated to promoting
computer users' right to use, study, copy, modify, and redistribute
computer programs.  The FSF promotes the development and use of free (as
in freedom) software---particularly the GNU operating system and its
GNU/Linux variants---and free documentation for free software.  The FSF
also helps to spread awareness of the ethical and political issues of
freedom in the use of software.  Their web site, located at
http://www.gnu.org, is an important source of information about GNU/Linux.
They are headquartered in Boston, MA, USA.
