FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Media Contact: Free Software Foundation
Jonathan Watterson <jono@fsf.org>
Phone: +1-617-669-9513

 Free Software Foundation Offers Resources to the Digital Speech Project


Boston MA, USA -- Monday, March 18th, 2002 -- The Free Software Foundation
(FSF) today heralded the launch of the Digital Speech Project: an effort
to encourage and coordinate activism to protect our digital freedoms in
light of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and similar laws.
The FSF has hired a Digital Freedom Organizer, Jonathan Watterson, to work
actively on the the Digital Speech Project.

Bradley M. Kuhn, vice president of the FSF, explained FSF's interest in
this project: "The FSF focuses on the fight for software freedom, but we
realize that without related freedoms, software freedom can easily be
eroded.  The Digital Speech Project fights for the freedom of all users of
all technology from legislative technology control measures like the DMCA
and the proposed proposed Security Systems Standards and Certification Act
(SSSCA).  These laws do menace software freedom, but we hope to educate
the public that these laws threaten many different and important
freedoms."

Watterson added: "The DMCA hurts everybody---software developers,
technology companies, computer users, authors, artists, musicians,
filmakkers, and anyone who benefits and enjoys a free marketplace of
creative expression.  I am excited that the FSF has taken on this issue,
and that FSF recognizes that Free Software supporters share common ground
on this issue with many other groups".

The Digital Speech Project has begun the process of coordinating activists
at universities, colleges, and communities around the USA to work against
the DMCA.  It also offers information about the DMCA, the SSSCA and how
you can help on its website, http://digitalspeech.org/.

Those interested in forming a local Digital Freedom group are encouraged
to contact Jonathan Watterson directly.


About Free Software Foundation:

The Free Software Foundation, founded in 1985, is dedicated to promoting
computer users' right to use, study, copy, modify, and redistribute
computer programs.  The FSF promotes the development and use of free (as
in freedom) software---particularly the GNU operating system and its
GNU/Linux variants---and free documentation for free software.  The FSF
also helps to spread awareness of the ethical and political issues of
freedom in the use of software.  Their web site, located at
http://www.gnu.org, is an important source of information about GNU/Linux.
They are headquartered in Boston, MA, USA.
