FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Media Contact: Free Software Foundation
               Ravi Khanna <pr@fsf.org>
               Phone: +1-617-542-5942

              Affero Hosts "Full Tilt for Software Freedom",
                  a Benefit for Free Software Foundation
              on Wednesday, August, 14, 2002 in San Francisco


San Francisco, CA, USA - Wednesday, August 14, 2002 - For the benefit of
FSF, Affero is hosting a party and fund-raising evening on Wednesday,
August 14, 2002 from 6 PM to 10 PM at Club NV at 525 Howard Street in
San Francisco, CA.  We invite all, including attendees of the nearby
LinuxWorld Conference and Expo, to participate in this "Full Tilt for
Software Freedom", where attendees will enjoy an evening of vintage
pinball gaming.  Free (as in price) snacks will be provided and a cash
bar will be available.

A $10 donation to FSF is suggested for this event.  In addition, some
pinball tables will be sponsored by companies, including HP and IBM.
Each table sponsor will donate $5,000 in the name of the highest-scoring
player on the table that evening.

The event will be highlighted by the music of Shady Lady.  In addition,
Bradley M. Kuhn, Executive Director of FSF, and Lawrence Lessig,
noted author and law professor at Stanford University will each make
brief remarks about the issues of software freedom.  They both will be
available at the event for questions and discussion with attendees.

Those who would like to engage in an extensive discussion with Kuhn and
Lessig are invited to support the FSF further by attending a fund-raising
dinner prior to the "Full Tilt" event.  The fund-raising dinner will
be held at a nearby restaurant, and the cost of $250 per person which
includes dinner and wine.  Seating is limited; you can reserve a space
by contacting Ravi Khanna at ravi@fsf.org or at +1-617-620-9640.


About Free Software Foundation:

The Free Software Foundation, founded in 1985, is dedicated to promoting
computer users' right to use, study, copy, modify, and redistribute
computer programs.  FSF promotes the development and use of free (as
in freedom) software--particularly the GNU operating system and its
GNU/Linux variants--and free documentation for free software.  FSF also
helps to spread awareness of the ethical and political issues of freedom
in the use of software.  Their web site, located at http://www.gnu.org,
is an important source of information about GNU/Linux.  They are
headquartered in Boston, MA, USA.


About Affero:

Affero, Inc., founded in 2001, was established to empower individuals
to introduce their communities to non-profit organizations, projects
and causes.  Services combine a rating system with a commerce system.
Individuals can rate the value of contributions as well as make donations
on behalf of the efforts extended by community participants.  All funds
pledged as as result of these interactions are disbursed to beneficiaries
of the volunteer's choice.  Affero endorses the development and use of
Free Software and their web site can be found at http://www.affero.org.
They are headquartered in San Francisco, CA, USA.


Copyright (C) 2002, Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is
permitted in any medium, provided this notice is preserved.
