FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Media Contact: Peer-Directed Projects Center
               Robert Levin <press@peerprojects.org>
               Phone: +1-713-385-5652

Media Contact: Free Software Foundation
               Bradley M. Kuhn <pr@fsf.org>
               Phone: +1-617-542-5942

         GNU Project Will Use Freenode as Its Official IRC Network

Boston, Massachusetts, USA - Monday, August 26, 2002 - The Free Software
Foundation is pleased to announce that, as of today, the GNU Project
will begin using Freenode as its official IRC network.  For years,
this network has served as an unofficial IRC home to many GNU projects.
Today, it becomes the official recommended IRC network for GNU packages.

Bradley M. Kuhn, executive director of the Free Software Foundation,
pointed out: "The GNU Project has long sought an IRC network aligned with
our strong stand for the principles of software freedom.  We believe
that Freenode, with its commitment to providing an innovative venue
for Free Software developers and like-minded individuals to cooperate,
fits the bill."

Robert Levin, president of Peer-Directed Projects Center, added: "We
welcome the opportunity to work more closely with the Free Software
Foundation.  Licensing that preserves freedom is essential to the health
and success of peer-directed projects.  The Free Software Foundation's
pivotal role in advocating software freedom makes it a valued contributor
to the community."

To implement this official relationship, FSF has pointed irc.gnu.org
directly to the irc.freenode.net server.  FSF also hopes to later
implement some process for automatic channel registration for GNU
projects through its savannah.gnu.org project collaboration site.


About Freenode:

Freenode provides interactive services to peer-directed projects,
which combine open, informal participation with broad licensing and wide
distribution of creative output.  Freenode serves such software-related
projects as DotGNU, XFS, Subversion, Source Mage GNU/Linux, Schoolforge
and GNU Enterprise, as well as support groups for FreeBSD, GNU/Linux
and various software applications.  Freenode, formerly Open Projects
Net, is a service of Peer-Directed Projects Center, a Texas non-profit
corporation.


About Free Software Foundation:

The Free Software Foundation, founded in 1985, is dedicated to promoting
computer users' right to use, study, copy, modify, and redistribute
computer programs.  FSF promotes the development and use of free (as
in freedom) software--particularly the GNU operating system and its
GNU/Linux variants--and free documentation for free software.  FSF also
helps to spread awareness of the ethical and political issues of freedom
in the use of software.  Their web site, located at http://www.gnu.org,
is an important source of information about GNU/Linux.  They are
headquartered in Boston, MA, USA.


Copyright (C) 2002, Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is
permitted in any medium, provided this notice is preserved.
