                 Software Freedom and the GNU Generation
                 ---------------------------------------

                                A talk by
      Bradley M. Kuhn, Executive Director, Free Software Foundation


In this talk, Mr. Kuhn introduces the issues of software freedom,
copyleft, and the history and future of the Free Software Movement to an
audience that is generally familiar with computer software.  (The talk is
geared toward computer users, but developers will not be bored.)  Kuhn
discusses in detail the most popular copyleft license, the GNU General
Public License (GPL), and introduce its advantages for users, programmers,
and businesses.

In contrast to the talks given by the Free Software supporters who founded
the community (such as Richard Stallman), this talk comes from the
perspective of someone who came of age in the Free Software Movement after
the early work was complete.  Thus, this talk addresses the "GNU
generation" -- those of us who learned of Free Software only after
GNU/Linux systems were beginning to become popular.

Mr. Kuhn addresses the stark contrast of two existing worlds in the
software industry: the developers of proprietary software and the
developers of Free Software.  As someone who has lived in both of these
worlds, Kuhn speak with some authority about the terrible challenges and
drawbacks faced in the proprietary software realm, and how the Free
Software community has overcome them by giving the same freedom to all
users, whether they program often, occasionally, or not at all.  He
explaines how one specific copyleft software license, the GNU GPL, has
worked to ensure freedom while creating a thriving user, developer and
business community.

Finally, Mr. Kuhn discusses the great challenges that we, the Free
Software Movement, face in the years ahead.  Too often, people assume that
since the job of writing a a Free Software operating system is done that
there is nothing left for the Free Software Movement to do.  Kuhn dispels
this misconception by giving real-world examples where we face challenges
today.  He also identifies dangerous trends that indicate challenges that
we may face in the future.

This talk takes approximately two hours, which always leaves at least 25
minutes for a question and answer session.

A shorter version of this talk can be given in a one hour time slot with
five minutes for questions.  That version does includes only a cursory
discussion of GNU GPL and does not cover the Movement's future challenges.
