Description of the Video "We Use GNU/Linux"

The main setting is a slum dwelling in Bangalore with some scenes 
showing the more prosperous surrounding area. 

00:00 - 00:02
Video caption: "a documentary film in making".
The video starts with a close-up of a drawing depicting a gnu head next 
to a full-bodied penguin on white paper. The gnu's face is brown with
big yellow eyes and red horns. The penguin is dark gray with big white
eyes and it is holding a pencil. Below the two characters it is written: 
"We use GNU-Linux". 

00:03 - 00:07
The previous scene dissolves into daylight shots of some of the
buildings around the slum. Video caption: "Bannerghatta Road - 
Bangalore, India". Two modern apartment buildings that rise high into 
the clear sky are seen in perspective from ground level. Then from a 
point of view across the street we see the IBM flat-roofed four-story 
building with dark glass windows, while a bus driving by partially 
covers the lower floors. Next is a side view of the famous Jal Bhavan 
arch-shaped building. At the end of this scene we see the upper part of 
a building where big blue letters read "EMC".

00:08 - 00:35
Transition to the slum. Video caption: "Sudarshan Layout. A small slum 
behind Banerghatta Road." Here we can see several scenes that depict the 
slum and the daily activities of its residents in the common area 
outside their rooms. 

In the foreground, to the right, we see many white plastic buckets and 
green and brown water containers gathered around a small water tube with 
two openings.  Water is pouring into a couple of containers placed on
the ground. In the background there is a child holding a bucket, large 
pieces of cloth hanging from the walls and two women walking.

Then the camera shows:

A close-up of a large black cooking pot placed on bricks, under which
fire is made with pieces of wood. 

A close-up of two public phones hanging on the wall.

A group of men sitting on the ground playing dice.

A young man and a woman playing paddle tennis.

Next we see two girls and two women walking. One of the women approaches 
the camera carrying a container full of vegetables. A vendor at one side 
is arranging tomatoes on top of his cart. People are seen walking around.

Mani is shown from the back riding his tricycle (he uses it because he
can't walk.) People are seen walking around.

00:36 - 00:38
Scene outside the computer lab at the slum. Video caption: "Ambedkar 
Community Computer Center (AC3) - a space in Sudarshan layout." We can 
see a square yellow sign up on the wall with logos and words in Kannada 
that mean: "Dr. Ambedkar Literacy Improvement Program - Facility 
provided by Janatantra Youth Forum - New Guruppana Palya - Bangalore 
32." Other words are in English: "Youth's Democratic Forum". To the 
left of the sign (your right) there is a closed gray door with white
paper signs on it, and to its right (your left) there are windows with
broken glass. 

00:39 - 00:43
A scene inside the lab shows a white sheet of paper with the design of 
the dynamic duo (a big and strong GNU seen from the front flying together 
with a small penguin); the words read: "Ambedkar Community Computer 
Center." The camera goes down to show another sheet of paper with the 
design of a GNU head and the words: "GNU-Linux. Free Software is the 
future. The future is ours." 

00:44 - 00:58
Exterior scene. Video caption: "Mani - a 18 years old kid." We can see 
Mani on his tricycle facing the camera, surrounded by two boys wearing 
white school clothes and carrying small backpacks. There is also a man 
helping Mani turn around in the opposite direction. Mani drives the
tricylce with his hands only. White cement blocks and other construction 
materials can be seen at both sides as Mani drives away along Sudarshan 
Layout. 

00:59 - 01:01
Transition. Mani is seen from the side sitting on the ground in front of 
the entrance door to the lab. He smiles.

01:02 - 01:25
Scene inside the lab. Video caption: "Mani teaches GNU-Linux software to 
other kids." We can see Mani and other young men sitting at a table and 
talking in front of a laptop. Close-up of the lid of a laptop with a 
big sticker that reads: "Gimp arte..." Video caption changes to "Mani -
a GIMP artist." Mani is sitting in front of a laptop that shows the
image of Dr. Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar and a GNU head on the screen. 
Close-up of Mani's face, he concentrates in drawing a GNU head with 
GIMP. We can see how he manipulates the laptop keys as the image is  
drawn on the screen.

01:26 - 01:43
Transition to show close-ups of several colorful digital paintings made 
by Mani with GIMP. 

01:44 - 02:23
Transition to the exterior, it's dark in the evening. Video caption: 
"Mani's Quest - a daily journey to learn GNU-Linux."  We can see a wide 
busy road with several lanes in both directions and lots of vehicles 
driving along with their lights on. As the vehicles pass by, Mani is 
seen riding his tricycle along the median divider of the road, escorted 
by two young men who at a certain point lift the tricycle to place it 
on the low median divider. A third man approaches to help and he steps 
onto the road among cars to clear the way for Mani. With a gesture of 
his hand he indicates that it is now safe to walk across.  Mani's 
escorts lift the tricycle off the median divider and push it rushing 
across the road. 

02:24 - 02:40
The previous scene dissolves into a view of the roofs at the slum. Video 
caption: "We Use GNU Linux - a work in progress." Two green balloons 
in the middle of the screen go up in the air. A woman is seen on a 
terrace hanging some clothes on a low wall on top of which there is also 
a carpet. As the camera continues to follow the balloons, it shows 
another terrace with clothing hanging out to dry. The balloons keep 
going up until they leave behind the slum area and approach the tall 
apartment buildings nearby. The video caption changes to: "film by: 
abhigyan singh - abhigyan.singh at gmail.com - 358 40 855 1354." 

02:41 - 03:00
End credits:

Original video by Abhigyan Singh - abhigyan.singh at gmail.com - 
358 40 855 1354 - Edited and adapted by GNU Education Team -
www.gnu.org/education/edu-team.html.

Background music - An improvised piano version of "The Free Software
song" by Markus Haist.

This video is released under license Creative Commons Attribution 
Share Alike 3.0 CC-BY-SA - http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0.

To learn more about GNU/Linux visit www.gnu.org.

